One of the systems
you're likely to run
into is the IBM z14.
Now, you may not be
working on a z14,
you may have something older,
you may have something newer.
But chances are, it will
look something like this.
The parts might look
a little different,
they might be rotated,
they might be in
a slightly different place,
but for as long as
I can remember,
the core components
of the mainframe have
always looked more
or less like this.
Starting from the right,
and I'll explain why in a minute,
you've got the CPC drawers.
They call them
drawers because they
pull open like a drawer
in a nightstand.
In here, you've got all the
processors and all the memory.
They've also got
the PCIe fanouts,
which is a fancy way of
saying all the cables that
hook up to all the
PCIe I/O cards.
It's also got the flexible
support processor which gives
you redundant interfaces to
all the internal
management network,
so you're never locked out,
you can always log into
one of these things.
There's also two DCA invertors.
These provide the specific power
that everything in here needs,
and there's two of them,
just in case one goes down.
Down here we've got
the radiator pumps.
These circulate
refrigerant throughout
the system keeping it down.
It takes the cold air being
blown up from the floor,
and blows the hot air
out the back.
So cold air in the bottom,
hot air on the back,
chilled refrigerant all
throughout the system.
There are also
water-cooled systems which
tap into a site's
chilled water lines.
Looks slightly different but
everything else is
pretty much the same.
This right here is
the PCIe I/O drawer.
This is where all the
input-output devices live.
That's your crypto cards,
network cards, compression
cards, and Phi card.
Up top over here,
there's batteries,
there's two of them, and they're
bigger than any batteries I own.
They're there to provide
a safe shutdown.
So if the power does go out,
none of the transactions
in flight get lost.
You've got four power supplies.
Now, depending on how
your mainframe is configured,
you may have less than four,
but part of the reason
for so many is,
you guessed it, redundancy.
So ideally, if you've
got four power supplies,
you've got two of
them hooked up to
a power panel over here,
and two others hooked
up to a power panel
over there for redundancy sake.
Lastly, there's
this display keyboard
and these two servers up here.
Those are called the
support elements.
We're going to come back to that
so much more on that in a minute.
I do want to mention that
your mainframe might
look like this.
It might also be
a single frame design.
Now, a single frame design,
usually called a
business-class machine,
is still a mainframe.
It's for environments
that don't require
quite as much hardware so
they can fit it all
into a single frame.
You might also find
your mainframe the newer ones
especially in an industry
standard 19 interact.
That's the size cabinet that
most IT equipment lives in,
stuff like servers,
storage devices, and
networking equipment.
That means the mainframe
doesn't have to
live off in its own special area,
it can be right in
the middle of it all.
So while the older mainframes
get their own unique area,
the rough metal ones
get to hang out with
all their other IT
equipment buddies.